Ultima II Remake

- All Monsters drop all items?
: This will not change, but instead, items will be given a rarity (1-5). 
:  All creatures can drop all items (including lith), but level 8 monsters 
:  have a higher chance to drop 5-stars. 
:  Drop rate per mob does not need to increase. 
; 1-star: Gems (thieves and gremlins always steal this first) 
; 2-star: keys, torches, trap kits (tools)
; 3-star: magic eye (helm), strange coins, magic boot, magic cloak, magic idol
; 4-star: blue tassle, skull key, brass button
; 5-star: trilithiums, sign of the avatar (ankh)

- XP and GP are random?
: Definitely change to FIXED values per creature. 
: This means you can farm items from townsfolk, but will hardly get XP/GP 
: Guards can still give decent XP/GP.
: e.g. Dragon - 80 XP, 40 GP 
:      Rogue  - 10 XP, 6 GP 
:      Guard  - 50 XP, 20 GP 
:    Townsfolk-  1 XP, 2 GP

- Shops level up?
: Shops will only level up when you spend appropriate XP at 
: the Hotel California. You must do this 7 times to unlock the most 
: powerful weapons and armor (and thus space travel). 

- Food? 
: Food will not drain in dungeons.

- Dungeons? 
: Hit points (up to 50% of what you lost) will be recovered when you 
: exit, similarly to Ultima 1. 
-  and Treasure? 
: Items are more heavily distributed throughout dungeons.
: e.g. there is a dungeon with a lot of lith, a dungeon with a lot of 
:  blue ribbons, etc. 

- Hotel California? 
: Still only place in the game to LEVEL UP. 
: New level up mechanics:
:  -SPEND XP ON GAINS. 
:  All gains are 100 GP. 
:    100 XP: +100 max HP
:    250 XP: +5 to 1 stat (YOU PICK) 
:    500 XP: +1 to all shop levels 
: You can still tip the bellhop 100 GP to get a random boost. 
:  50% chance to do nothing, 50% chance to raise a stat to 99 
;   for 200 turns. 

- Lord British?
: Instead of just giving HP he heals you to max hp/mp, AND gives a minimum 
:  of 100 FOOD. 

- Offer gold?
: NPCs will automatically ask for money if they can be bribed.
:  Makes getting Quickblade and Magic Ring much easier.

- Minax fight?
: Minax can ONLY be harmed by the Quickblade. 
: Instead of teleporting to the furthest corners of the castle, she will instead
:  teleport around the map 1 turn after being HIT in a leading fashion. 
:  This will give the frozen monsters more opportunity to fight. 

- Dialogue?
: Certain things are unlocked through dialogue, like bribing the old man under 
: A TREE and planet coordinates. Many redundant NPCs will be removed. 

- Space? 
: -NO NAVIGATION REQUIRED. 
: -Warnings without compression suit and enough trilithiums. 
: -Fly to location and back, no landing mini-game. 
: -No space fights.
: -No XYZ coordinates - either you know the planet or you don't. 
: -Planets are more thematically independant. 
